In this lecture, you're going to learn how to work with CSV files in python.
In case you don't know, CSV stands for comma separated value, and
it looks like a simplified spread sheet stored as a plain text file.
So, on the top we import the csv module.
First we need to open a file, so for this use the built in
open function, we cannot use the path class, so
open let's call this file data.csv. Now,
we want to open this in the write mode because  we want to write data to it. This
returns a file object so when you're done you should make sure
to close it or as I told you before, the better approach
is to use the width statement. So width
open as file. Now, we don't need to close the file,
and that is better, so this csv module has a method
for creating a csv writer, we call this and pass our
file object. So look at the first parameter here, it has to be file
object, that's why we cannot use the path class. So we pass the file
object here, and this gives use  csv writer and
with this we can simply write tabular data to our csv file. So,
writer.writerow.
Here we pass an aray of values, so for the first row I want to add
the headings of this table of data. So, let's say
we're going to have three columns transactions id
product id and
price. And one more time writer.
writerow. We pass an array of data so,
let's say transaction id is 1000 product id is 1,
price is 5 dollars, we can duplicate this, write another
row with different data. Now save
the changes and run this program, okay, so, here
in our project folder, we have data.csv
as you can see this is a simplified spreadsheet, so we have a table
of data each line represents a row and
our cells are separated using a comma, this is a very simple way to store data
and transfer it from one machine onto another. Now let me show you how
to read a csv file. So let's say we have a csv file called
data.csv now we should open this file in
read mode, so we don't want to supply the second argument,
next, instead of a csv writer, we need a csv reader,
so let's call the reader method, and rename
this variable to reader.
Now, we can call the list function to get all the data.
In this CSV file and convert it to a list object. Let's
take a look. So, run the program,
as you see we get a list of lists,
so each line in our csv file is a list of objects.
Note that the value of each cell is represented as a string,
even if you are dealing with a number, so you have to manually convert these strings
into integers, floats and so on. We can also iterate after this reader
object because it's iterable. So for row and reader
let's print row. Run the program
now we don't see anything here, we only see the output
of line 5, where we convert this reader to a list object
so what happened to these two lines? Well,
this reader object has a index or a position that is set
to the beginning of the file. When we convert this reader, to a list, that
position goes to the end of the file, so when we iterate over it,
we are already at the end of the file, that is why we cannot iterate
this reader twice. Let me comment out line 5,
and run the program one more time, there you go,
now we have three rows. Each row is an array of strings.
So as you see, working with csv files is pretty easy in python, with these
objects we can do some interesting things, for example, let's say we have
a directory of a hundred or a thousand csv files, we can
iterate this directory, open it's csv file, and
open the first row which is the header row. Or, perhaps we want to combine this csv
files into one file, you can easily do that here, another interesting thing  we can
do is to summarize the value of these csv values, let's say we have
10 csv files, and each csv file represents the transaction
for a given product. With only a few lines of code, we can read this
csv files, and calculate the sum of sales for each product.
And then store the result in another CSV file, the possibilities are endless!